---
title: 'Fairshake'
published: '2019-01-21'
license: 'kemitchell/law-form-license/1e'
defaults:
  payment deadline: fourteen calendar days
  billing error notice deadline: fourteen calendar days
  late payment interest: one percent
  expiration timeout: six calendar months
  nonrenewal deadline: sixty calendar days
notes:
  - 'Reimplemented with contract components.'
  - 'Added "Cost of Collection".'
digest: 515f4e8ba35220f18f6197f632d5f4533d58bb72bc959c8068e04cef47b4fcd8
---

**Company** and **Contractor** agree:

# Work

_Contractor_ will do the work described in each **Statement of Work** cosigned with _Company_ under this agreement. _Company_ will pay the fees described in the _Statement of Work_, and reimburse expenses that an executive officer of _Company_ approves in writing, specifically, in advance. _Contractor_ will bill _Company_ for fees and expenses as described in the _Statement of Work_.

# Payment

## Deadline

_Company_ will pay each correctly billed amount within `payment deadline` of receiving the bill.

## Errors

_Company_ will notify _Contractor_ by e-mail of any suspected error in a bill within `billing error notice deadline` of receiving the bill. If _Company_ does not notify of an error in that time, _Company_ will pay the billed amount.

## Late Payments

_Company_ will pay _Contractor_ `late payment interest` interest on late bill payments, compounded monthly. If the law sets a lower maximum rate of late-payment interest, _Company_ will pay that rate instead.

## Stopping Work

If _Company_ does not pay a bill on time, _Contractor_ may notify _Company_ by e-mail and stop work until all bills are paid. Stopping work in this way postpones all deadlines under this agreement for as long as work stops. Any recurring fees continue to add up.

## Cost of Collection

If _Company_ does not pay a bill on time, _Company_ agrees to pay _Contractor_'s costs of pursuing payment and collecting that bill, such as attorney fees and costs, that _Contractor_ incurs after the deadline for payment.

# Term

## Expiration

This agreement will end once `expiration timeout` have passed since there was any ongoing _Statement of Work_.

## Early Termination

Both _Company_ and _Contractor_ can end this agreement early by notifying the other by e-mail `nonrenewal deadline` in advance. _Company_ can also end this agreement early under [Conflicts](#conflicts).

## Final Bill

When this agreement ends, _Contractor_ will stop work and bill _Company_ for work already done.

## Continuing Provisions

These sections continue to apply after this agreement ends: [Work](#work), [Payment](#payment), [Working Relationship](#working-relationship), [Further Steps](#further-steps), [Company Can Act on Contractor's Behalf](#company-can-act-on-contractors-behalf), and [Limit on Liability](#limit-on-liability).

# Working Relationship

## Independence

_Contractor_ will decide when, where, and how to work under this agreement, with the discretion of an independent contractor. _Contractor_ will not have any power to enter agreements or take other legal action on _Company_'s behalf.

## Personnel

Unless a _Statement of Work_ says otherwise, _Contractor_ may use employee and contractor personnel to do any work under this agreement. Those personnel will be employees and contractors of _Contractor_, not _Company_.

## No Benefits

Neither _Contractor_ nor any _Contractor_ personnel will receive any employee benefits from _Company_.

## Compliance

Both _Company_ and _Contractor_ will do their respective parts for tax, labor, employment, and immigration law compliance, consistent with their independent-contractor relationship under this agreement.

## Compliance Indemnity

_Contractor_ will pay any losses that _Company_ pays or becomes legally responsible to pay, including expenses of defending against any _Legal Claim_, related to _Contractor_'s failure under [Compliance](#compliance) for _Contractor_ or any _Contractor_ personnel. _Company_ will promptly notify _Contractor_ by e-mail whenever it anticipates possible losses that _Contractor_ might have to pay. If _Company_ fails to notify _Contractor_ promptly, _Contractor_ will not pay _Company_ losses that _Contractor_ could have reduced or defended against if _Company_ had notified _Contractor_ promptly.

## Conflicts

_Contractor_ will notify _Company_ by e-mail of any other company that _Contractor_ anticipates working with that _Company_ could reasonably see as a direct competitor. In response, _Company_ may end this agreement, effective immediately, by notifying _Contractor_ by e-mail.

# Intellectual Property

## Work Made for Hire

<https://commonform.org/kemitchell/work-made-for-hire-unless-employment/1e1c> with updates and corrections, replacing _Party Making Work_ with _Contractor_, _Work_ with _New Intellectual Property_

## Contractor Assigns IP

On _Company_'s full payment of each bill, _Contractor_ assigns _New Intellectual Property_ related to work under that bill that cannot be "work made for hire" under copyright law to _Company_. Among the rights assigned are:

- ownership of _New Intellectual Property_

- all rights to make _Legal Claim_ for _Infringement_ of _New Intellectual Property_

- all rights to seek legal remedies for _Infringement_ of _New Intellectual Property_, such as money damages, injunctions, and other "equitable remedies", as well as any other compensation, benefits, or procedural privileges a court might award

- all other rights _Contractor_ has in _New Intellectual Property_

## Further Steps

_Contractor_ will do everything necessary to paper assignments in [Contractor Assigns IP](#contractor-assigns-ip), make them legally effective, and help _Company_ enforce the rights assigned. _Company_ will notify _Contractor_ by e-mail of any further steps required, provide all necessary documentation, and reimburse _Contractor_ for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses.

## Company Can Act on Contractor's Behalf

### What Company May Do

_Company_ may take action under [Further Steps](#further-steps) on _Contractor_'s behalf if _Company_ can't find _Contractor_, if _Contractor_ isn't capable of doing so, or if _Contractor_ refuses to do so.

### Legal Intent

In legal terms of art, _Company_ and _Contractor_ intend [What Company May Do](#what-company-may-do) to appoint _Company_ as _Contractor_'s "attorney in fact with full right of substitution" to act on _Contractor_'s behalf under [Further Steps](#further-steps).

## Disclosure

_Contractor_ will promptly disclose _New Intellectual Property_ created under this agreement to the _Company_ in writing, as it is created.

## Other IP

_Contractor_ licenses _Company_ to do everything that would otherwise infringe _Intellectual Property Rights_ that _Contractor_ can license, other than _New Intellectual Property_, that _Contractor_ uses or builds on during work under this agreement. The license continues forever, cannot be revoked, imposes no royalty or other charge, and allows _Company_ to sublicense.

# Guarantees

_Contractor_ guarantees that:

- _Contractor_ will not breach any agreement with anyone else by entering into this agreement or doing work under it.

- _Contractor_ will be qualified to do all the work under each _Statement of Work_, and will have any necessary permits and licenses.

- _Contractor_ is not currently working with, or planning to work with, any other company that _Company_ could reasonably see as a direct competitor.

- _Contractor_ will not knowingly infringe _Intellectual Property Rights_ in work under this agreement.

- _Contractor_ will not knowingly use or build on _Intellectual Property Rights_ that _Contractor_ cannot license to _Company_ under [Other IP](#other-ip) during work under this agreement.

- _Contractor_ has all legal rights needed to assign _New Intellectual Property_.

- No _New Intellectual Property_ has been involved in any _Legal Claim_.

- No one has claimed any rights in any _New Intellectual Property_.

- No _New Intellectual Property_ has been assigned or exclusively licensed to anyone else.

- No one has any lien on or other right to any of _New Intellectual Property_ that will interfere with or limit the rights _Company_ receives.

- No employer, client, educational institution, or other organization _Contractor_ has been affiliated with has any right to claim ownership of any _New Intellectual Property_.

# Disclaimer

!!! _Contractor_ makes only the guarantees in [Guarantees](#guarantees). Otherwise, _Contractor_ provides the _New Intellectual Property_ and all work product "as is", without any warranty whatsoever.

# Limit on Liability

!!! As far as the law allows, if _Company_ makes any _Legal Claim_ against _Contractor_ related to this agreement, _Contractor_'s aggregate liability to _Company_ will be capped at the amount of fees _Company_ has actually paid _Contractor_ under this agreement. This limit on liability does not apply to indemnity under [Compliance Indemnity](#compliance-indemnity).

# General Contract Terms

## Law

<https://commonform.org/kemitchell/law-of-signatory-address/1e> with updates and corrections, replacing _Signatory_ with _Company_

## Disputes

_Company_ and _Contractor_ agree to make any _Legal Claim_ related to this agreement only in the federal or state courts nearest the address _Company_ provides with its signature, and to pay the other's attorney fees and costs if they lose in court.

## Whole Agreement

This agreement and any confidentiality agreement between _Company_ and _Contractor_ list all the terms that _Company_ and _Contractor_ intend to apply to _Contractor_'s work for _Company_.

## Assignment

_Contractor_ cannot assign any right under this agreement without the permission of an executive officer of _Company_ in writing, in advance. _Company_ can assign this agreement, as a whole, to another business entity that acquires its stock or substantially all its assets, or to a new business entity set up to change its legal form or jurisdiction. Any attempt to assign rights under this agreement against its terms has no legal effect.

## Delegation

<https://commonform.org/kemitchell/no-delegation/1e> with updates and corrections

## Unenforceable Terms

<https://commonform.org/kemitchell/strict-severability/1e> with updates and corrections

# Definitions

- **Derivatives** means _Intellectual Property Rights_ incorporating, improving, or derived from other _Intellectual Property Rights_.

- **Embodiments** means documents, computer files, and other records that describe, embody, record, or store the subject matter of _New Intellectual Property_.

- **Infringement** means infringement of _Intellectual Property Rights_, before or after the date of this agreement.

- **Intellectual Property Rights** means all of these:

  - copyrights, mask work rights, and moral rights

  - patent rights

  - trade secrets

  - trade names, trademarks, service marks, and trade dress

  - database rights

  - rights in plant varieties

  - rights in registrations and applications for _Intellectual Property Rights_

- **Legal Claim** means any legal action or claim, ignoring the historical distinction between actions "in law" and "in equity".

- **New Intellectual Property** means all of these, created by _Contractor_ alone or with others:

  - all _Intellectual Property Rights_ that _Contractor_ created before entering into this agreement, as a head start on work under an _Statement of Work_

  - all _Intellectual Property Rights_ that _Contractor_ creates as a result of _Contractor_'s work under any _Statement of Work_

  - all _Intellectual Property Rights_ created by _Contractor_ using _Company_ equipment, supplies, facilities, or trade secrets

  - _Derivatives_ of _New Intellectual Property_

  - _Embodiments_ of _New Intellectual Property_
