---
title: 'Software Support Contract'
published: '2019-01-31'
license: 'kemitchell/law-form-license/1e'
notes:
  - 'Transcribe handwritten markup.'
digest: c4c77b81e200c2e633ea773ceb6488077cbc0df1e69ef6ef772fc71a152dd7cb
---

# Order Form

These terms, together with the **Order Form** referencing them, make up a software support agreement. The terms **Developer** and **Customer** are defined on the _Order Form_.

# Scope

- **Software** means the software identified on the _Order Form_.

- <https://commonform.org/kemitchell/software-covered-versions/1e2u> replacing _Order Form_ with _Order Form_, _Software_ with _Software_, _Vendor_ with _Developer_

- **Service Limits** means any limits on use of _Developer_'s support services specified on the _Order Form_, such as the number of _Customer Personnel_ who may contact _Developer_ for support, or the maximum number of _Support Requests_ _Developer_ will respond to per month.

# Developer's Obligations

## Respond to Support Requests

_Developer_ agrees to respond to **Support Requests** from _Customer Personnel_ about _Covered Versions_ of the _Software_.

## Support Channels

If the _Order Form_ specifies support channels, _Developer_ only agrees to respond to _Support Requests_ sent via those channels. If the _Order Form_ does not specify support channels, _Developer_ only agrees to respond to _Support Requests_ via e-mail, and to give _Notice_ of an e-mail address for _Support Requests_ on entering into this agreement.

## Diagnosis and Resolution

_Developer_ agrees to diagnose and resolve _Support Requests_ related to installing _Covered Versions_ of the _Software_, configuring standard features of _Covered Versions_ of the _Software_ per its documentation, and software errors encountered when using _Covered Versions_ of the _Software_.

## Technical Support Escalation

If _Developer_ is a company of more than one person, then _Developer_ agrees to promptly escalate _Support Requests_ that initially responding support personnel cannot resolve independently to a _Developer_ engineer responsible for the _Software_. Where appropriate, initially responding support personnel may connect _Customer Personnel_ to engineers directly.

## Dedicated Support Personnel

If _Developer_ is a company of more than one person and the _Order Form_ specifies dedicated support personnel, then _Developer_ agrees to assign a limited number of specific support personnel to respond to _Customer_'s _Support Requests_, in order to maximize the chance that _Customer Personnel_ will receive support from personnel familiar with _Customer_'s use cases and past*Support Requests*.

## Service-Level Agreement

If the _Order Form_ specifies a service-level agreement:

### Meet or Exceed Service Levels

Subject to [Business Hours](#business-hours), [Holidays](#holidays), and [Vacation and Sick Days](#vacation-and-sick-days) _Developer_ agrees to meet or exceed the service levels specified on the _Order Form_.

### Refund Prepaid Fees

If _Developer_ fails to meet [Meet or Exceed Service Levels](#meet-or-exceed-service-levels) for three _Billing Periods_ in a row, and _Customer_ ends this agreement at the end of those _Billing Periods_, citing poor support responsiveness, _Developer_ agrees to refund any _Prepaid Fees_.

### Business Hours

If the _Order Form_ specifies business hours, _Developer_ agrees to respond to _Support Requests_ during those hours. If the _Order Form_ does not specify business hours, _Developer_ agrees to respond to _Support Requests_ during regular business hours in the time zone of _Developer's Address_.

### Holidays

If the _Order Form_ specifies holidays, _Developer_ will not respond to _Support Requests_ on those holidays. If the _Order Form_ does not specify holidays, _Developer_ will not respond to _Support Requests_ on days when commercial banks in the city nearest _Developer's Address_ typically stay closed.

### Vacation and Sick Days

If _Developer_ is an individual or a company of one person, then _Developer_ will not respond to _Support Requests_ on days _Developer_ takes off as vacation or sick days. _Developer_ agrees to give _Notice_ of sick days, and advance _Notice_ of vacation days. _Developer_ may take as many sick days and vacation days as _Customer_'s human resources policies allow full-time employees to take, or if _Customer_ does not have such a policy, a reasonable number of sick days and vacation days.

### Support Request Severity

- **Critical Support Requests** are _Support Requests_ that report that:

  - _Customer_ cannot install the _Software_ by following the directions in its documentation.

  - The _Software_ crashes or becomes unresponsive.

  - _Software_ errors prevent _Customer_ from using the _Software_.

  - The _Software_ contains security vulnerabilities.

- All other _Support Requests_ are **Regular Support Requests**.

### Credits

If the _Order Form_ specifies a credit schedule:

#### Give Credits

_Developer_ agrees to credit _Customer_'s account on _Notice_ and verification that _Developer_ failed to provide service according to [Meet or Exceed Service Levels](#meet-or-exceed-service-levels) in the current _Billing Period_ or any of the three prior _Billing Periods_, according to that credit schedule.

#### Apply Credits

_Developer_ agrees to apply credits under [Give Credits](#give-credits) against _Customer_'s obligations to pay fees under this agreement as soon as possible. _Developer_ does not agree to refund any credits.

# Customer's Obligations

## Pay Fees

_Customer_ agrees to pay the license fees specified on the _Order Form_. _Customer_ agrees to pay using the method specified on the _Order Form_. _Customer_ agrees to pay all tax on fees under this agreement, except tax _Developer_ owes on income.

## Abide by Service Limits

_Customer_ agrees to abide by any _Service Limits_.

## Provide Information Promptly

_Customer_ agrees to provide _Developer_ support personnel the information they need to respond to _Support Requests_ promptly.

# Intellectual Property

This agreement does not license or assign any _Intellectual Property Right_.

# Liability

## Agreed Legal Remedies

If the _Order Form_ specifies a credit schedule, _Customer_'s only legal remedy for failures to meet _Developer_'s service-level agreement will be credits under [Give Credits](#give-credits) and any refund under [Refund Prepaid Fees](#refund-prepaid-fees).

## Excuses

Neither side will be liable for any failure or delay in meeting any obligation under this agreement caused by:

- failure of the other side or its personnel to meet their obligations under this agreement

- actions done or delayed on written request of the other side

- fire, flood, earthquake, and other natural disasters

- declared and undeclared wars, acts of terrorism, sabotage, riots, civil disorders, rebellions, and revolutions

- extraordinary malfunction of Internet infrastructure, data centers, or communications utilities

- government actions taken in response to any of these causes

## Limited Damages

!!!

### Damages Limit

!!! Subject to [Damages Limit Exceptions](#damages-limit-exceptions), neither side's total liability for breach of this agreement will exceed the amount _Customer_ paid _Developer_ under this agreement during the twelve months before the first claim is filed. This limit applies even if the side liable is advised that the other may suffer damages, and even if _Developer_ paid nothing at all.

### Damages Exclusion

!!! Neither side will be liable for breach-of-contract damages they could not have reasonably foreseen when entering this agreement.

### Damages Limit Exceptions

[Limited Damages](#limited-damages) does not limit damages for breach of [Pay Fees](#pay-fees).

# Term and Renewal

## Initial Term

This agreement will continue for the initial term specified on the _Order Form_.

## Renewal

If the _Order Form_ specifies automatic renewal, then this agreement will renew automatically for additional periods, each as long as the initial term.

## Termination with License Agreement

If _Customer_ licenses the _Software_ from _Developer_, and _Customer_'s rights to use the _Software_ terminate during the term of this agreement, then this agreement terminates with it, and _Developer_ agrees to refund any _Prepaid Fees_.

# Changes

## Changes Customer May Make

Subject to [Change Process](#change-process):

- _Customer_ may end this agreement at any time.

- If the _Order Form_ specifies flexible pricing for increased _Service Limits_, _Customer_ may increase its _Service Limits_ within that flexible pricing at any time. _Customer_ changes to _Service Limits_ take effect as soon as _Customer_ pays the additional fees.

## Changes Developer May Make

Subject to [Change Process](#change-process):

- _Developer_ may end this agreement when it would otherwise automatically renew by giving _Notice_ at least 30 calendar days ahead of time.

- If _Customer_ breaches this agreement, _Developer_ gives _Notice_ of the breach, and _Customer_ does not cure the breach within 30 calendar days, _Developer_ may end this agreement immediately.

# Process

## Notice Process

Both sides agree that to give _Notice_ under this agreement, the side giving _Notice_ must send by e-mail to the address the recipient given with its signature, or to a different address given later for _Notice_ going forward. If either side finds that e-mail can't be delivered to the e-mail address given, it may give _Notice_ by registered mail to the address on file for the recipient with the state under whose laws it is organized.

## Change Process

_Customer_ and _Developer_ agree to make changes allowed under this agreement by _Notice_.

# General Contract Terms

## Governing Law

The law of the state of _Developer's Address_ will govern this agreement

## Whole Agreement

Both sides intend the _Order Form_ and these terms as the final, complete, and only expression of their terms about licensing of the _Software_. However, this agreement does not affect any separate nondisclosure agreement _Developer_ and _Customer_ may have.

## Enforcement

Only _Developer_ and _Customer_ may enforce this agreement.

## Assignment

Each side may assign all its rights, licenses, and obligations under this agreement, as a whole, to a new legal entity created to change its jurisdiction or legal form of organization, or to an entity that acquires substantially all of its assets or enough securities to control its management. Otherwise, each side needs _Permission_ to assign any right or license under this agreement. Attempts to assign against the terms of this agreement will have no legal effect.

## Lawsuits

### (No Heading)

**Lawsuit** means a lawsuit brought by one side against the other, related to this agreement or the _Software_.

### (No Heading)

**Developer's Local Courts** means the state and federal courts with jurisdiction at _Developer's Address_.

### Forum

Both sides agree to bring any _Lawsuit_ in _Developer's Local Courts_.

### Exclusive Jurisdiction

Both sides consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of _Developer's Local Courts_. Both sides may enforce judgments from _Developer's Local Courts_ in other jurisdictions.

### Inconvenient Forum Waiver

Both sides waive any objection to venue for any _Lawsuit_ in _Developer's Local Courts_ and any claim that the other brought any _Lawsuit_ in _Developer's Local Courts_ in an inconvenient forum.

### Loser Pays

Each side agrees to pay the other side's costs of bringing any successful _Lawsuit_ or collecting payment owed under this agreement.

# Definitions

- **Billing Period** means a successive, month-long period. The first _Billing Period_ starts on the date of this agreement. The plural is **Billing Periods**.

- **Customer Personnel** means _Customer_'s employees and each _Customer_ subsidiary's employees, as well as independent contractors providing services to _Customer_.

- **Intellectual Property Right** means any patent, copyright, trademark, or trade secret right, or any other legal right typically referred to as an intellectual property right.

- **Notice** means a written communication from one side to the other per [Notice Process](#notice-process).

- **Permission** means prior _Notice_ of consent.

- **Prepaid Fees** means fees _Customer_ prepaid under this agreement for time remaining in the term of this agreement.

- **Developer's Address** means the address that _Developer_ gives along with its signature to the _Order Form_.
