---
title: 'SaaS Passport Support Add-On'
published: '2020-04-19'
digest: 176006314b9a3c1bdeabffc0315e1daacee157d1503bc61f0cf9b1eec3c5c216
---

# Provide Support

Instead of the technical support obligation under the _Base Terms_, _Provider_ agrees to provide technical support under the terms of this ad-on.

## Support

_Provider_ agrees to respond to **Support Requests** from _Customer Personnel_ about configuration of, use of, and problems with the _Service_.

## Channels

_Provider_ agrees to respond to _Support Requests_ that _Customer Personnel_ send to the support channels listed on the _Rider_. If the _Rider_ does not say, then _Provider_ agrees to respond to _Support Requests_ that _Customer Personnel_ send via e-mail.

## Hours

_Provider_ agrees to respond to _Support Requests_ during the **Support Hours** listed on the _Rider_. If the _Rider_ does not say, then _Provider_ agrees to respond to _Support Requests_ during _Business Hours_.

## Support Request Triage

Unless the _Rider_ defines these terms differently:

- **Critical Support Requests** are _Support Requests_ to that report:

  - systems providing the _Service_ are down or unresponsive

  - _Users_ cannot use any part of the _Feature Set_

  - the _Service_ is under imminent threat of malicious technical attack or _Data Compromise_

- **Urgent Support Requests** are _Support Requests_ that report substantial loss of functionality or responsiveness of the _Service_.

- **Regular Support Requests** are all other _Support Requests_.

## Responsiveness

_Provider_ agrees to respond to _Support Requests_ within the times listed on the _Rider_. If the _Rider_ does not say, then _Provider_ agrees to respond to _Support Requests_ during _Support Hours_ as follows:

### Critical Support Requests

For _Critical Support Requests_:

- Respond within 30 minutes.

- Update on status every hour.

### Urgent Support Requests

For _Urgent Support Requests_:

- Respond within 2 hours.

- Update on status every 4 hours.

### Regular Support Requests

For _Regular Support Requests_: Respond the next _Business Day_, update on status every _Business Day_, and provide a solution within 7 _Business Days_.

### Escalation

_Provider_ agrees to task _Provider Personnel_ providing support with promptly escalating _Support Requests_ that they cannot resolve independently to _Provider_ engineering personnel responsible for the _Service_. Support personnel will remain the primary points of contact for _Customer Personnel_, coordinate with _Provider_ engineering personnel, and relay questions, advice, and progress to _Customer Personnel_. Where appropriate, support personnel may connect _Customer Personnel_ to _Provider_ engineering personnel directly.

## Refund Fees for Unresponsive Support

If _Provider_ fails to meet [Responsiveness](#responsiveness) for three _Billing Periods_ in a row, and _Customer_ ends this agreement at the end of those _Billing Periods_, citing poor support responsiveness, _Provider_ agrees to refund any _Prepaid Fees_. If _Provider_ billed _Fees_ for support separately, _Provider_ also agrees to refund all _Fees_ that _Provider_ paid for support in the three _Billing Periods_.

# Agreed Legal Remedy

_Customer_'s only legal remedy for failure to meet [Responsiveness](#responsiveness) will be a refund under [Refund Fees for Unresponsive Support](#refund-fees-for-unresponsive-support).

# Definitions

- The following terms mean the same in this add-on as in the base terms: **Base Terms**, **Billing Periods**, **Business Hours**, **Customer Personnel**, **Customer**, **Data Compromise**, **Feature Set**, **Fees**, **Prepaid Fees**, **Provider Personnel**, **Provider's Country**, **Provider**, **Rider**, **Service**, **Users**.

- **Business Day** means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or a day when commercial banks in the capitol of _Provider's Country_ typically stay closed. The plural is **Business Days**.
