---
title: indieopensource.com Developer License Agreement
published: '2018-10-28'
license: 'kemitchell/law-form-license/1e'
digest: 7b94a11ed74204b2015daf991b547ba314c6b828ec8249f26c4c5f42b6b4e4bd
---

**Developer** and **Customer** agree:

# Background

- _Developer_ develops and maintains the **Software**, \_\_\_\_\_, at \_\_\_\_\_.

- _Developer_ licenses the _Software_ to the public on the terms of a public license that _Developer_ publishes with the _Software_'s source code.

- This agreements _Customer_ an additional license, on different terms.

# Licenses

## (No Heading)

**Covered Versions of the Software** means:

- the latest version of the _Software_ that _Developer_ has published as of the date of this agreement with a version number lacking any alpha, beta, prerelease, preview, or other tag indicating provisional release

- any new versions of the _Software_ that _Developer_ publishes during the term of this agreement with the same project name and major-version number

## Copyright License

Subject to the other terms of this agreement, _Developer_ grants _Customer_ a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display, publicly perform, and distribute to the public _Covered Versions of the Software_, in source or any other form.

## Patent License

Subject to the other terms of this agreement, _Developer_ grants _Customer_ a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-free, irrevocable patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, import, and otherwise transfer _Covered Versions of the Software_. That license applies only to patent claims _Developer_ can license that are necessarily infringed by _Covered Versions of the Software_ alone.

# Warranty

_Developer_ states that _Developer_ has and will either own all copyrights in _Covered Versions of the Software_, or have the right to license copyrights in work in _Covered Versions of the Software_ under this agreement.

# Disclaimer

!!! Apart from [Warranty](#warranty), _Developer_ licenses _Covered Versions of the Software_ as is, without any warranty at all.

# Liability

!!! As far as the law allows, _Developer_'s total liability to _Customer_ for any kind of legal claim related to _Covered Versions of the Software_ or this agreement will be limited to the fee _Customer_ paid for this agreement.
