---
title: 'SaaS Passport Arbitration Add-On'
published: '2020-04-18'
digest: ebc20772216efda5af3c862684cc43262b9c5d42ce553944a06850bd5e5fc819
---

# Arbitration

Instead of bringing any _Lawsuit_ in _Provider's Local Courts_, the parties agree to bring any _Lawsuit_ to arbitration.

# Location

Both sides agree to arbitrate in the for arbitration listed on the _Rider_. If the _Rider_ does not say, the parties agree to arbitrate in the city nearest _Provider's Given Address_ with an international, commercial airport.

# Arbitrator

Both sides agree to arbitration administered by the arbitrator listed on the _Rider_. If the _Rider_ does not say, both sides agree to arbitration administered by the arbitration organization based in the same country as the location for arbitration, by number of arbitrations per year, or if there is no such arbitrator, by the International Court of Arbitration.

# Rules

Both sides agree to arbitrator selection and arbitration under the rules listed on the _Rider_. If the _Rider_ does not say, both sides agree to select arbitrators and arbitrate under the default rules of the arbitrator for commercial disputes.

# Language

Both sides agree to arbitrate in the language specific for arbitration on the _Rider_. If the _Rider_ does not say, the parties agree to arbitrate in English.

# Enforcement

Both sides agree that judgments on awards rendered by arbitrator under this agreement may be entered in any court with jurisdiction.

# Definitions

The following terms mean the same in this add-on as in the base terms: **Lawsuit**, **Provider's Given Address**, **Provider's Local Courts**, **Rider**.
