---
title: 'SaaS Passport Base Terms'
published: '2020-05-28'
notes:
  - Add summary section.
  - Strike an extra comma.
  - Use "run" consistently.
  - Clarify Conflicts.
  - Replace "host" with "publish" in Publish Documentation.
  - Replace "citing" with "mentioning" in Refund Prepaid Fees....
  - Spell out numbers.
  - Spell out "Intellectual Property".
  - Use "by giving Notice" throughout.
  - Call the period during which Provider can't end the agreement unilaterally the "Lock-In Period" and incorporate it from the Order Form, with a default of three Billing Periods.
digest: af055cef6bd5fa27a03e9cd52fd42dd444ded972e428857224f296fe1599bb11
---

**Provider** and **Customer** agree:

# Summary

These base terms lay a foundation of legal and operational obligations, processes, and rules for software as a service.

# Deal Packet

## Documents

These **Base Terms**, together with an **Order Form** and **Rider** referencing them, make up a **Deal Packet** for software as a service. The _Deal Packet_ may also include one or more **Add-On** documents referenced by the _Rider_.

## Conflicts

Where documents in the _Deal Packet_ conflict, the _Rider_ takes precedence over any _Add-On_ and any _Add-On_ takes precedence over these _Base Terms_. The _Order Form_ may only provide terms explicitly expected by the _Rider_, an _Add-On_, or these _Base Terms_. Any other terms in the _Order Form_ have no effect.

# Provider's Obligations

## Provide the Service

_Provider_ agrees to provide the _Service_ so that _Users_ can use the _Feature Set_, within the _Use Limits_, by accessing the _Service_ with systems meeting the requirements in the _Documentation_.

## Provide Hosting Equipment

_Provider_ agrees to provide for itself, at its own expense, all the computers, software, and other equipment needed to provide the _Service_.

## Keep Customer Data Confidential

_Provider_ agrees not to access, use, or disclose _Customer Data_ without _Permission_, except:

- _Provider_ may access, use, and disclose _Customer Data_ as needed to provide the _Service_.

- _Provider_ may monitor use of the _Service_ to prevent, detect, and mitigate breach of this agreement.

- _Provider_ may analyze _Customer Data_ to improve the _Service_.

- _Provider_ may access _Customer Data_, and disclose _Customer Data_ to _Customer Personnel_, to respond to _Support Requests_.

## Provide Access to Customer Data

_Provider_ agrees to make _Customer Data_ available for _Customer_ to download, via self-service features of the _Service_, within 7 calendar days after _Notice_ from _Customer_, or both, in standardized, machine-readable data-interchange formats.

## Take Security Precautions

_Provider_ agrees to take industry-standard security precautions to defend the _Service_ from malicious technical attack and _Data Compromise_. _Provider_ does not agree to make sure the _Service_ is completely free of software bugs or configuration errors affecting security, or completely secure from all possible technical attack.

## Prepare for Disasters

_Provider_ agrees to:

- adopt, maintain, and periodically review a written plan to recover from any _Disaster_ affecting the systems used to provide the _Service_ or the integrity of _Customer Data_

- share the plan with relevant _Provider_ personnel

- give _Customer_ a copy of the current plan on request

- follow the plan if a _Disaster_ happens

## Provide Basic Support

_Provider_ agrees to respond to **Support Requests** from _Customer Personnel_ via e-mail about configuration of, use of, and problems with the _Service_. _Provider_ does not agree to any specific service levels for response to _Support Requests_. _Provider_ may agree to provide more assurances about _Support Requests_ through an _Add-On_.

## Enforce Rules About Providing the Service

_Provider_ agrees to make sure _Provider Personnel_ abide by [Keep Customer Data Confidential](#keep-customer-data-confidential), [Take Security Precautions](#take-security-precautions), [Prepare for Disasters](#prepare-for-disasters), and [Keep Malicious Code Out of the Service](#keep-malicious-code-out-of-the-service). _Provider_ may contract with others to provide computer systems used to provide the _Service_ to _Customer_.

## Publish Documentation

_Provider_ agrees to publish the _Documentation_ so _Customer_ personnel can read it on the World Wide Web.

## Refund Prepaid Fees for Removed Features

If _Provider_ changes or removes _Software Features_ from the _Service_ that were part of the _Feature Set_, substantially reducing how useful the _Service_ is to _Customer_, and _Customer_ ends this agreement in the same _Billing Period_ as the change or the next _Billing Period_, mentioning the change, then _Provider_ agrees to refund any _Prepaid Fees_ on _Request_.

## Keep Malicious Code Out of the Service

_Provider_ agrees to make sure the _Service_ itself is free of computer viruses, Trojans, worms, and other malicious code. _Provider_ does not agree to ensure that content from others that is accessible through the _Service_ is free of malicious code.

## Limit Validation Code in the Software

_Provider_ agrees not to include any code that automatically disables _Software Features_ based on monitoring of _Use Limits_. _Provider_ may include code that monitors _Use Limits_, validates administrative _Access Credentials_, and reports results back to _Provider_ systems.

## Publish a Privacy Notice

_Provider_ agrees to publish notice of _Provider_'s privacy policies meeting all legal requirements of _Provider's Country_ and _Provider's National Subdivision_, except any _Special Data Regulations_, at a stable World Wide Web address.

## Bill Customer

_Provider_ agrees to bill _Customer_ as agreed on the _Order Form_.

## Give Customer Tax-Compliance Information

_Provider_ agrees to give _Customer_ information that _Customer_ needs to comply with tax laws that apply to payments under the agreement.

## Follow Customer Policies

_Provider_ agrees to comply with company-wide _Customer_ policies, such as anticorruption, antiharassment, and equal opportunity policies, attached to the _Order Form_ at the time of signing, to the extent they do not conflict with any terms of the _Deal Packet_. If _Customer_ gives _Provider_ notice of updates to those policies, _Provider_ agrees to comply with the updates, to the extent the changes do not impose substantial new compliance costs.

## Protect Customer from Liability

So long as _Customer_ has paid all fees as required by this agreement:

### Indemnify Customer

Subject to [Indemnification Process](#indemnification-process), _Provider_ agrees to give _Customer_ _Indemnification_ for:

- _Legal Claims_ by others alleging that _Permitted Use of the Service_ infringes any copyright, trademark, or trade secret right, or breaks any law

- _Legal Claims_ by others resulting from _Provider_'s breach of [Independence](#independence)

### Provide Assurance about Patents

As of the day _Provider_ signs this agreement, _Provider_ employees are not aware of any patent that _Provider_ would infringe by licensing or providing the _Service_ under this agreement, or that _Customer_ would infringe by _Permitted Use of the Service_.

### Give Notice of Infringement and Noncompliance Claims

_Provider_ agrees to give _Customer_ prompt _Notice_ of any _Infringement or Noncompliance Claim_.

## Protect Customer After this Agreement Ends

The following _Provider_ obligations continue after this agreement ends:

- [Keep Customer Data Confidential](#keep-customer-data-confidential), indefinitely

- [Enforce Rules About Providing the Service](#enforce-rules-about-providing-the-service), indefinitely

- [Indemnify Customer](#indemnify-customer), indefinitely

- [Provide Access to Customer Data](#provide-access-to-customer-data), for thirty calendar days

# Customer's Obligations

## Pay Fees

_Customer_ agrees to pay all fees agreed on the _Order Form_.

## Pay on Time

_Customer_ agrees to pay each _Provider_ bill as agreed on the _Order Form_. If the _Order Form_ does not say, _Customer_ agrees to pay each _Provider_ bill within thirty calendar days.

## Use the Agreed Payment Method

_Customer_ agrees to pay all fees under this agreement via the payment method agreed on the _Order Form_. If the _Order Form_ does not say, _Customer_ agrees to pay via bank-to-bank transfer, such as FedWire, ACH, SEPA, or SWIFT, if possible, and otherwise via common electronic payment system, such as by credit card or PayPal.

## Cover Payment Method Fees

_Customer_ agrees to increase the amount of each payment to _Provider_ so that _Provider_ receives the full amount owed, net of any fees for use of the payment method.

## Pay Taxes on Fees

_Customer_ agrees to pay all tax on fees under this agreement, except tax _Provider_ owes on its own income.

## Handle Tax Withholding

If the law requires withhold of taxes on fees paid under this agreement:

- _Customer_ agrees to make the required tax withholding payments for _Provider_ by deducting the right amounts from payments to _Provider_ and paying them to the proper tax authorities.

- _Customer_ agrees to increase the amount of each payment made under this agreement, to offset withholding, so that _Provider_ receives the full amount owed.

- _Customer_ agrees to provide _Provider_ relevant official tax documentation and tax receipts showing that withholding was required, and that proper withholding payment has been made, as soon as possible after making any withholding payment.

## Give Provider Tax-Compliance Information

_Customer_ agrees to give _Provider_ information that _Provider_ needs to comply with tax laws that apply payments under the agreement.

## Provide User Equipment

_Provider_ agrees to provide for itself and its _Users_, at its own expense, all the computers, software, and other equipment needed to access the _Service_.

## Follow Rules About Use

_Customer_ agrees not to:

- infringe anyone's _Intellectual Property Right_ using the _Service_

- violate anyone's rights using the _Service_

- breach any agreement using the _Service_

- break the law using the _Service_

- furnish or solicit _Customer Data_ in any way that infringes any _Intellectual Property Right_, breaks any law, or breaches any other agreement

- furnish or solicit _Customer Data_ subject to _Special Data Regulations_

- remove proprietary notices from the _Service_ or _Documentation_

- strain the technical infrastructure of the _Service_ with an unreasonable volume or rate of requests, or requests designed to impose an unreasonable load, except with _Permission_ to conduct a specific technical or security test

- use the _Service_ to assess whether or how to create a competitive offering, or to assess the competitive strengths or weaknesses of the _Service_ in comparison to a current or potential _Customer_ offering

- publish data about the performance of the _Service_

## Enforce Rules About Using the Service

_Customer_ agrees to make sure _Customer Personnel_ abide by [Follow Rules About Use](#follow-rules-about-use).

## Update Account Details

_Customer_ agrees to keep its contact, payment, and other administrative details complete, accurate, and up-to-date. _Customer_ agrees to do so through the _Account Dashboard_ whenever possible, and otherwise by giving _Notice_.

## Respond to Support Follow-Ups

_Customer_ agrees to make sure that relevant _Customer Personnel_ respond quickly to follow-up questions about _Support Requests_.

## Indemnify Provider

Subject to [Indemnification Process](#indemnification-process), _Customer_ agrees to give _Provider_ _Indemnification_ from _Legal Claims_ by others based on:

- _Customer_'s breach of this agreement

- _Customer Data_

- _Use of the Service at Customer's Own Risk_

- misuse of _Customer_'s _Access Credentials_

## Protect Provider After this Agreement Ends

The following _Customer_ obligations continue after this agreement ends:

- [Pay Fees](#pay-fees), indefinitely

- [Indemnify Provider](#indemnify-provider), indefinitely

# Intellectual Property

## Existing and Outside Intellectual Property

This agreement does not change ownership of any _Intellectual Property Right_ held by either side before entering this agreement, or created outside the scope of this agreement.

## Copyright License

_Provider_ grants _Customer_ and each of the _Users_ a _Standard License_, for any copyrights _Provider_ can license, as needed to make _Permitted Use of the Service_ and to read the _Documentation_.

## Patent License

_Provider_ grants _Customer_ and each of the _Users_ a _Standard License_, for any patents _Provider_ can license, as needed to make _Permitted Use of the Service_.

## No Other Licenses

Except for the licenses in [Intellectual Property](#intellectual-property), this agreement does not license or assign any _Intellectual Property Right_.

## Public Licenses

The terms of this agreement are separate from, and independent of, the terms of any public licenses that _Provider_ grants for software or other material that is part of the _Service_.

# Changes

## Changes Customer May Make

- _Customer_ may end this agreement at the end of a _Billing Period_ by giving _Notice_ at least one full _Billing Period_ in advance.

- If the _Order Form_ describes a pricing structure for higher _Use Limits_, _Customer_ may increase its _Use Limits_ within that pricing structure at any time, by giving _Notice_. _Customer_ increases to _Use Limits_ take effect as soon as _Customer_ pays any added fees.

- _Customer_ may end this agreement by giving _Notice_ if _Provider_ becomes _Insolvent_.

## Changes Provider May Make

- _Provider_ may end this agreement at the end of the _Lock-In Period_ or any later _Billing Period_ by giving _Notice_ at least three full _Billing Periods_ in advance.

- _Provider_ may end this agreement immediately if _Customer_ breaches this agreement and fails to cure the breach within fourteen calendar days of _Notice_.

- _Provider_ may add, remove, and change _Software Features_ in the _Service_.

- _Provider_ may add to, remove from, and change the functionality of the _Account Dashboard_ and _Documentation_.

- _Provider_ may take any of these steps in response to an _Infringement or Noncompliance Claim_:

  - _Provider_ may update the _Service_ so that use of the _Service_ as provided will no longer infringe or break the law.

  - _Provider_ may change how it provides the _Service_ so that use of the _Service_ as provided will no longer infringe or break the law.

  - If the problem is infringement, _Provider_ may get a license for _Customer_ so that use of the _Service_ will no longer infringe.

  - If the problem is illegality, _Provider_ may get the government approvals, licenses, or other requirements needed to abide by the law.

  - _Provider_ may end this agreement and refund any _Prepaid Fees_.

- _Provider_ may end this agreement by giving _Notice_ if _Customer_ becomes _Insolvent_.

# Liability

## Agreed Legal Remedies

- Each side's only legal remedy for _Legal Claims_ covered by _Indemnification_ will be _Indemnification_.

- _Customer_'s only legal remedy for changes to _Software Features_ in the _Service_ will be a refund under [Refund Prepaid Fees for Removed Features](#refund-prepaid-fees-for-removed-features).

## Valid Excuses

Neither side will be liable for any failure or delay in meeting any service level or other obligation under this agreement caused by a _Disaster_, failure of the other side or its personnel to meet their obligations under this agreement, or actions done or delayed on written request of the other side.

## Only Express Warranties

!!! Except for its obligations in [Provider's Obligations](#providers-obligations), _Provider_ provides the _Service_ "as is", without any warranty at all. _Provider_ disclaims any warranties the law might otherwise imply, like warranties of merchantability, fitness for any particular purpose, title, or noninfringement.

## Limited Damages

### Damages Cap

!!! Subject to [Damages Limit Exceptions](#damages-limit-exceptions), neither side's total liability for breach of this agreement will exceed the amount of fees _Provider_ received from _Customer_ under this agreement during the twelve months before the first claim is filed. This limit applies even if the side liable is advised that the other may suffer damages, and even if _Customer_ paid no fees at all.

### Unforeseen Damages

!!! Neither side will be liable for breach-of-contract damages they could not have reasonably foreseen when entering into this agreement.

### Damages Limit Exceptions

[Limited Damages](#limited-damages) does not limit damages for breach of:

- [Pay Fees](#pay-fees)

- [Keep Customer Data Confidential](#keep-customer-data-confidential)

- [Follow Rules About Use](#follow-rules-about-use)

- [Enforce Rules About Using the Service](#enforce-rules-about-using-the-service)

- [Provide Assurance about Patents](#provide-assurance-about-patents)

- [Indemnify Customer](#indemnify-customer)

- [Indemnify Provider](#indemnify-provider)

# Process

## Indemnification Process

Both sides agree that to receive _Indemnification_ under this agreement, they must give _Notice_ of any covered _Legal Claims_ quickly, allow the other side to control investigation, defense, and settlement, and cooperate with those efforts. Both sides agree that if they fail to give _Notice_ of any covered _Legal Claims_ quickly, _Indemnification_ will not cover amounts that could have been defended against or mitigated if _Notice_ had been given quickly. Both sides agree that if they take control of the defense and settlement of any _Legal Claims_ covered by _Indemnification_, they will not agree to any settlements that admit fault or impose obligations on the other side without their _Permission_.

## Notice Process

Both sides agree that to give _Notice_ under this agreement, the side giving _Notice_ must send by e-mail to the address the recipient gave with its signature, or to a different address given later for _Notice_ going forward. If either side finds that e-mail can't be delivered to the e-mail address given, it may give _Notice_ by registered mail to the address on file for the recipient with the state under whose laws it is organized.

# General Contract Terms

## Governing Law

The law of the state of California will govern this agreement.

## English Language

Both sides agree to give _Notice_, correspond, and conduct all other business related to this agreement in the English language.

## Government Procurement

The _Service_ is commercial computer software, and the _Documentation_ is commercial computer software documentation. All were developed exclusively at private expense. If _Customer_'s procurement is subject to Federal Acquisition Regulation 12.212 or Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement 227.7202, _Customer_'s rights will be only those stated in this agreement.

## Currency

Unless otherwise noted, all money amounts, throughout the _Deal Packet_, are United States dollars.

## Whole Agreement

Both sides intend the _Deal Packet_ and these terms as the final, complete, and only expression of their terms about use of the _Service_ and related support services. However, this agreement does not affect the terms of any separate nondisclosure or confidentiality agreement _Provider_ and _Customer_ may have.

## Enforcement

Only _Provider_ and _Customer_ may enforce this agreement.

## Assignment

Each side may assign all its rights, licenses, and obligations under this agreement, as a whole, to a new legal entity created to change its jurisdiction or legal form of organization, or to an entity that acquires substantially all of its assets or enough securities to control its management. Otherwise, each side needs _Permission_ to assign any right or license under this agreement. Attempts to assign against these terms will have no legal effect.

## Lawsuits

### Forum

Both sides agree to bring any _Lawsuit_ in _Provider_'s Local Courts.

### Exclusive Jurisdiction

Both sides consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of _Provider's Local Courts_. Both sides may enforce judgments from _Provider's Local Courts_ in other jurisdictions.

### Inconvenient Forum Waiver

Both sides waive any objection to venue for any _Lawsuit_ in _Provider's Local Courts_ and any claim that the other brought any _Lawsuit_ in _Provider's Local Courts_ in an inconvenient forum.

## Independence

### Discretion

The parties agree that _Provider_ will decide when, where, and how to provide the _Service_, with the discretion of an independent contractor.

### No Authority

Neither side may enter agreements or take any other legal action on the other side's behalf.

### No Benefits

Neither _Provider_ nor any _Provider Personnel_ will receive any employee benefits from _Customer_.

### Compliance

Each side agrees to do its part for tax, labor, employment, and immigration law compliance, consistent with their relationship as independent contractors.

# Definitions

- **Access Credentials** means a user name and password, license key, or other secret that affords use of the _Service_ or systems providing the _Service_.

- **Account Dashboard** means the account management section of the administration interface of the _Service_.

- **Billing Period** means a successive, month-long period. The first _Billing Period_ starts on the date of this agreement. The plural is **Billing Periods**.

- **Customer Data** means data that:

  - _Users_ furnish to the _Service_, such as by entering it or configuring the _Service_ to gather or receive it, if doing so doesn't breach this agreement

  - the _Service_ collects about _Users_ and how they use the _Service_

- **Customer Personnel** means _Customer_'s employees and each _Customer_ subsidiary's employees, as well as independent contractors providing services to _Customer_.

- **Data Compromise** means malicious technical compromise or unauthorized disclosure of _Customer Data_.

- **Disaster** means:

  - fire, flood, earthquake, pandemic, and other natural disasters

  - declared and undeclared wars, acts of terrorism, sabotage, riots, civil disorders, rebellions, and revolutions

  - extraordinary malfunction of Internet infrastructure, data centers, or communications utilities

  - malicious technical attack on systems providing the _Service_

  - government actions taken in response to any of these causes

- **Documentation** means the documentation that _Provider_ publishes for the _Service_.

- **Feature Set** means all _Software Features_ described in the _Documentation_ on the date of this agreement.

- **Indemnification** means indemnifying and holding harmless for all liability, expenses, damages, and costs.

- **Infringement or Noncompliance Claim** means a court order against use of the _Service_ based on a claim that it infringes any _Intellectual Property Right_, or breaks any law, or a threat of that kind of claim that _Provider_ believes credible.

- **Intellectual Property Right** means any patent, copyright, trademark, or trade secret right, or any other legal right typically referred to as an intellectual property right.

- **Insolvent** means any of these:

  - having fairly stated liabilities that exceed fairly stated assets

  - failing to pay obligations on time

  - adjudicated bankrupt

  - filed a voluntary bankruptcy petition

  - made an assignment for the benefit of creditors

- **Lawsuit** means a lawsuit brought by one side against the other, related to this agreement or the _Service_.

- **Legal Claims** means claims, demands, lawsuits, and other legal actions.

- **Lock-In Period** means the commitment period identified on the _Order Form_. If the _Order Form_ does not say, the _Lock-In Period_ is three _Billing Periods_.

- **Notice** means a written communication from one side to the other per [Notice Process](#notice-process).

- **Permission** means prior _Notice_ of consent.

- **Permitted Use of the Service** means _Customer_'s use of the _Service_, other than _Use of the Service at Customer's Own Risk_.

- **Prepaid Fees** means fees _Customer_ prepaid for _Billing Periods_ yet to begin.

- **Provider Personnel** means _Provider_ personnel involved in the _Service_ to _Customer_ under this agreement, be they employees or independent contractors or _Provider_ or any _Provider_ subsidiary.

- **Provider's Given Address** means the address _Provider_ gives with its signature to the _Order Form_.

- **Provider's Country** means the country of _Provider's Given Address_.

- **Provider's National Subdivision** means the state or other national subdivision of _Provider's Given Address_, if any.

- **Provider's Local Courts** means the courts of _Provider's Country_, as well as the courts of _Provider's National Subdivision_, if any, that are located nearest _Provider's Given Address_.

- **Request** means _Notice_ of a request.

- **Service** means the service identified on the _Order Form_.

- **Software Features** means functions of the _Service_ described in the _Documentation_.

- **Special Data Regulations** means laws and regulations that impose special requirements on the collection, storage, processing, or transmission of particular kinds of data about individuals. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, Children's Online Privacy Protection Act, and Fair Credit Reporting Act are some _Special Data Regulations_. Laws that apply to data just because they may identify specific individuals are not _Special Data Regulations_.

- **Standard License** means a nonexclusive license during the term of the agreement, without rights to sublicense, that is conditional on payment of all fees as required by this agreement and limited by the _Use Limits_.

- **Use of the Service at Customer's Own Risk** means:

  - use of the _Service_ in breach of this agreement

  - use of the _Service_ with changes, additions, or in combination with other software, systems, or data, in a way that infringes someone else's _Intellectual Property Right_ or breaks the law, if use of the _Service_ as provided, as described by the _Documentation_, would not

  - unauthorized use of the _Service_ with _Customer_ _Access Credentials_

- **Use Limits** means numeric limits on technical aspects of the _Service_, such as amount of data storage space and visitors per _Billing Period_.

- **Users** means users of the _Service_, both _Customer Personnel_ and others.
